deep beneath the surface of the
financial system lies great risk and
today we are going to unveil that you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you we need to talk about
what's happening in the financial
industry you hear a lot and some stuff
never materializes but you got to
understand where the risks are I'm going
to show you how that connects in with
real estate I think it's very important
to understand all the new B es so that
we can be financially educated to make
the right decisions is it the right time
to buy real estate is it the right time
to buy stocks once we understand the
foundational principles and how to then
monitor that on our own we're much
better off okay so let's first discuss
this fed Flags rising delinquencies in
commercial real estate loans we know
that to be the case who does this affect
the most it is the regional Banks the
small Banks small lenders who are
disproportionately involved uh here so
just keep that in mind it's not the JP
Morgans it's the smaller Banks but the
smaller Banks pose a very big risk to
the whole system banks are preparing for
further losses as delinquencies in loans
tied to office space continue to rise
I've been wared about this for a for a
long time I mean anybody who's been
paying attention knows exactly what's
been going on uh office and Retail just
terrible just just absolutely terrible
and many have said we're going to
experience a lot more bank failures
along that there's a lot of the
businesses that are involved with this
that are also going to fail now when
something collapses this is the big this
is the the big misconception when
something collapses it doesn't collapse
like a building collapses it collapses
into something else so for instance you
have a big company right it's you know
worth billions of dollars and that
financial company let's say it collapses
well what happens s is JP Morgan swoops
in and buys up all those assets for
pennies on the dollar that's the
difference it's not as if it collaps oh
no don't collap you got to understand
it's a big that's that's a very big
distinction the same thing happens in
the retail space you know if one of
these big retail establishments fails
they don't just disappear a lot of their
data is bought maybe they have some
technology that there
some other companies will buy that up
it's a fire sale okay and so it's not
exactly like it just disappear sometimes
they just get put under a different name
they get relabeled and they move on
Janet yellen's new too big to fail firms
Ah that's right treasury says that
nonbank Mortgage Services are
systemically important that's right just
add everybody add hey can I be added to
the list Jan thank you surprise surprise
to big government is creating more to
Big to fail Financial firms uh
apparently here you could see the quote
vulnerabilities of non-bank mortgage
companies can amplify shocks in the
mortgage market and undermine Financial
stability that's my girl right there
Janet Yellen saying it um and you could
see that the fsoc that's the financial
stability oversight Council finds that
their specialized business model oh we
love
those you could see here that they are
especially Su susceptible to
macroeconomic fluctuations in the
housing market so of course anything
connected with it though it's it's not
just one thing or the other like come on
let's be honest it's just what's being
affected right now right and so what
they're talking about is the dodf Frank
act okay we're going to manage this risk
we're going to make sure that all the
non banks are under more scrutiny but
come on we know that they're not we know
that and so this is where there's um
certainly this the the risk factor okay
um what's going to happen so I I don't
like to speculate too much uh but
certainly if interest rates this is what
you need to know from this what's the
takeaway if interest rates remain high
they're in big trouble you might ask why
like why why is that really a problem I
mean if there's higher interest rates
they could charge more interest right
look what happened is that for a long
period of time interest rates were super
low during that period of time the
assets that they were purchasing because
it went out for a long time the assets
that they purchased their value on those
assets is very bad today so imagine
holding onto an asset that has like 30%
of its value well that puts you in a
tough spot and so a lot of these
companies are dealing with that they've
got non-performing loans they've got
companies that are definitely going to
go bankrupt that they can't pay up they
say a company will say well we have this
retail building over here and we you
know all the tenants are gone we're
screwed uh you remember how we told you
we would pay you back you know a billion
dollars oh no we can't pay a billion we
can only pay you know 100 million okay
and then they start writing off all this
debt that can create a cascading effect
and start to impact just about everybody
because one step at a time like Domino's
falling down it can cause a
crisis this is by the way let me be
clear this is not what we saw during the
financial crisis that's not what we're
talking about although it affects
Financial companies too 44% of adults
would buy their child home today
childhood home today if they could
afford it they can't though that's the
problem all
right
um they're saying that yet only half of
all adults say that they could afford it
at today's prices half of the people
what well what what happened here well
clearly we have seen the chaos that has
been going on with the prices of real
estate it would should never have gotten
to the level that it did all right we
get into the craziness I mean that's
just uh you know there's different types
of real estate of course you got to
understand the the the nuances of that
there's commercial when you look at
commercial that's broken down is an
office is a retail but then you look at
the residential side we have apartment
buildings which is technically
considered commercial real estate multif
Family Properties but um just understand
that okay uh this is buyouts of
delinquent commercial real estate
clo loans have soar oh my
goodness ah you remember back during the
financial crisis we heard about some
crazy derivatives right yeah yep well
there's still derivatives uh and they're
called collateralized loan obligations
instead of collateralized debt
obligations same stuff
basically now the the total quantity
small we're not worried about that but
understand that the gambling risk that
they're
taking is uh it hasn't changed all right
you could see that distress in
commercial real estate clo loans jumps
back up to a record they are never going
to give that up there's always that risk
that they just love why because if they
can get more yield they're going to look
like Heroes so they're going to take
that risk and nobody's going to lose
because they are systemically important
that's right no problem one New York
office building shows the stress in the
20 trillion commercial real estate
market okay we work in Macy's and
balloon payments oh my you've probably
seen this type of thing before there's a
lot of these very big buildings in these
beautiful locations fantastic gr a
locations and they're empty yeah that's
the problem okay uh and they don't pay
back the loan the lender is basically
screwed real screwed over and that can
cause the the cascading effect you got
to be aware of that all right we have
this the back to work
barometer so you got to look like that
kind of tapered off I think in general
more people are going back to work and
there's the hybrid model and so on this
is New York all right 49.4 2%
49.4 2% not 50% okay we're just under
that 50%
Mark so there's an issue okay because
that's not going to change you're not
going to get from 50 to 100 where it was
you're not going to get to 80
so that's the issue you see so uh this
really piles on and you'll see nothing's
going to change so what's the takeaway
here commercial real estate is in big
trouble Regional lenders they're the
ones that are really front and center
with this so let's keep an eye on those
more banks will likely fail watch how
much money you keep in any one account
I'm not so worried about you know being
bailed out or whatever I think they will
do bailout it's not going to be that
issue unless Mass widespread bank
failures top to bottom that's a
different story but if it's one here one
there there W they will bail it out the
FDIC we know they do not have enough
money to do so but they'll get it
they'll get the printers running and
they'll do that okay you as an
individual you've got to be aware of
this watch where your money is if you
have multiple banks that is always good
if you can have money that's kept in
different countries that's also good
different currencies that's also good uh
be aware of diversification as much as
you can get into systemically important
you know what I heard
was when you know you have a problem
with debt it's on you but when that debt
grows to a certain point it's the
lender's problem you know what I mean it
it it changes once you get into the
billions no longer is it your problem
it's going to be the bank's problem so
they help you out you become
systemically important that's this world
that we live in so we can't um you know
basically we can't just ignore that
that's what this world is built on all
this financial fraud and nonsense and
everything and realize that it's so
frail and fragile that there Comes A
Time for reasons unknown where we start
to get a collapse and a crisis and these
things do happen the
response ah money printers that's right
they love to do that they love to
devalue and they will they will but a
crisis has to come first we'll see what
happens we'll see how that all is
unfolding in the future if you want to
know about currency diversification if
you want to know about how to build a
business online so that you can be
making money from different
countries uh Sunday business live we're
going to talk about uh a couple
countries in Europe we don't normally
talk about actually I got a little just
a little tidbit little surprise to share
we'll discuss that because it's not
always about the the known a lot of
times it's about the unknown that's very
interesting anyway if you want to know
more about that link at the top of the
description Sunday business live that's
my favorite time spending with my
friends I hope you join there and as
always hit that thumbs up button on the
way out it supports this channel very
much I'll see you tomorrow take care